You're listening to Perdido Bay Methodist Church's podcast on the Gospel of Matthew.
Today's Wednesday, February 11th.
And today we're reading Matthew chapter 13, verses 1 through 23.
My name is Scott Hone.
And this podcast is produced by Kenny Stewart.
1998, 1999,
is the third sermon that Matthew records Jesus'
preaching in the Gospel of Matthew.
The first sermon
is the Sermon on the Mount that was chapters five through seven of Matthew
And then the second sermon, that's the instructions that Jesus gives to the twelve before sending them out of missions. That was Matthew chapter 10.
Today we're reading the beginning of Jesus' third sermon.
And,
Jesus's third sermon is when he uses parables to describe the nature of the kingdom of heaven.
All the parables in chapter 13 tell us what the kingdom of heaven is like.
In chapter 13, Jesus tells us eight parables.
To describe the kingdom of heaven, and he also explains the meaning of two of these parables.
they came to heaven that's God's rule God's reign
The kingdom happens whenever God manifests God's authority and power. Why does it look like when God shows us that God is in charge?
That God is king. See, that's the kingdom of heaven.
And Jesus uses parables, tells us parables to make
a comparison to what God's kingdom is like.
So that we will recognize how God works in the world.
And Jesus begins his sermon on parables by telling us the parable of the sower.
A farmer goes out and sows seeds, and actually this farmer is, you know,
Very generous, even reckless in how he scatters the seed because he throws the seed all over the place.
Some seed fall on a path.
And birds come and eat it up.
And some see they fall on rocky ground and sprout up quickly.
But then the plants wither when the sun begins to shine. it gets hot because the soil was shallow and it had no root.
Still other seeds fell among thorns, who choked the seeds out when they started coming to life, and and still other seeds,
Fell on good soil,
And they grew.
Some,
A hundredfold, sub sixty others, thirtyfold.
When you read Matthew 13:1-23, you'll notice that Jesus
Interpose this parable for his disciples. He tells them what the different types of sorrow mean. Jesus says, I'm reading from verse 19 and following. Jesus says, when
When anyone hears the word of the kingdom and does not understand it,
"'The evil one comes and snatches away what is sown in the heart.'"
That is what was sown on the path.
As for what was sown on rocky ground, this is the one who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy.
Yet such a person has no root, but endures only for a while.
And when trouble or persecution arises on account of the word,
That person immediately falls away.
As for what was sown among thorns, this is the one who hears the word.
But the cares of this age,
The law of wealth
Choke the word and it heals nothing.
But as for what, Osona,, good soul,
This is the one who hears the word and understands it.
Who indeed bears fruit and yields, in one case, a hundredfold.
And another sixty, and then another thirty.
And I'll be honest with you, we can get discouraged.
When some people don't respond to God's word and God's grace
Jesus understands that there are some people who won't respond
And here Jesus explains why that is.
You know, Jesus also sees that others do respond to God's word and grace. People do hear the word and understand it and are transformed by God's grace. And they end up
They end up bearing fruit that's amazing and abundant.
In Jesus's day, a 30-fold harvest was great.
A 60-volt harvest would have been unimaginably great, grand, amazing.
But a hundredfold harvest
That was in the realm of the miraculous.
And Jesus' point here is that people are responding to God's word.
You just have to look.
To where they're responding you just have to look to those who are responding
Instead of getting distracted
By those who don't respond.
I'm going to close with a prayer from the Presbyterian Book of Worship.
And let us pray.
Almighty God.
We thank you for planting in us the seed of your work.
By your Holy Spirit, help us to receive it with joy, joy,
And live according to it
That we may grow in faith and hope and love.
Through Jesus Christ, our Lord, who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, amen.
Amen.